# Amazon Simple Storage Service (S3)

Amazon S3 is the persistent storage for AWS. It provides a simple web services interface that can be used to store and retrieve any amount of data, at any time, from anywhere on the Web. There are some restrictions, though; data in S3 must be stored in named buckets, and any single object can be no more than 5 terabytes in size. The data stored in S3 is highly durable and is stored in multiple facilities and multiple devices within a facility.

As with almost all AWS services, there are standard REST- and SOAP-based web service APIs to interact with files stored on S3. It gives any developer access to the same highly scalable, reliable, secure, fast, inexpensive infrastructure that Amazon uses to run its own global network of websites. The service aims to maximize benefits of scale and to pass those benefits on to developers. Amazon S3’s permanent storage will be used to store data sets and computed result sets generated by Amazon EMR Job Flows. Applications built with Amazon EMR will need to use some S3 services for data storage.

## AWS CLI S3 Commands

### Single Local File and S3 Object Operations¶
Some commands perform operations only on single files and S3 objects. The following commands are single file/object operations if no `--recursive` flag is provided.

- **`cp`**
   - e.g. `aws s3 cp my_file s3://my-bucket/my_file`
   - e.g. `aws s3 cp s3://my-bucket/my_file my_file`
   - add the flag `--acl public-read` if you want the file to be readable by the public
- **`mv`**
   - e.g. `aws s3 mv s3://my-bucket/my_file_from s3://my-bucket/my_file_to`
- **`rm`**
   - e.g. `aws s3 rm s3://my-bucket/my_file`

### S3 Bucket Operations

- **`mb`** - "make bucket"
   - e.g. `aws s3 mb s3://my-bucket`
- **`rb`** - "remove bucket"
   - e.g. `aws s3 rb s3://my-bucket`
- **`ls`**
   - e.g. `aws s3 ls s3://my-bucket`

### Sync Operations

Sync the contents of a local directory and an S3 bucket

```
aws s3 sync s3://my-bucket/dir dir
```